Good afternoon, everyone.
Can I ask you all a favor?
Those of you who have large
empty spaces next to you,
could you please all kind of
stand up and shuffle over a bit?
We've got a lot of people who
want to come in and see this,
and it's not nearly as much
fun being in the overflow room.
Thank you very much.
So, people in the middle have
been very helpful here.
Some of you on the edges,
kind of try and squeeze in a little bit.
One or two seats on the
edges makes a big difference,
helps people grab a seat and feel
like they're part of the crowd here.
One big happy family, right?
Okay, so we're here to talk about
one of my favorite topics,
XML.
Just to clarify,
some of you have been coming
up and asking me about,
you know,
bug fix orders and engineering standards.
I'm the product marketing manager, okay?
I'm the marketing weenie for
WebObjects and development platforms.
I don't know the in-depth guts
of all the engineering stuff.
Tony or the engineering teams can
give you much better answers on that.
I handle all the warm, fuzzy stuff.
So, feel free to come hassle
me about those things,
but just direct your
questions appropriately.
I'm also responsible for what we do
with general development platforms,
including open source, Java,
and open standards,
which is why I'm very excited
about this session on XML.
How many of you are doing
things with XML today?
Okay.
How many of you think you're
going to have to do stuff with
XML in the next year or so?
Okay.
So, it's definitely coming down the pike.
We want to make sure that
we have the best platform,
WebObjects, Mac OS X, open source.
As you know,
Apple does have already a C-based
XML parser that we've open sourced
as part of the Darwin project for
Mac OS X for people writing into
Mac OS X or core foundation APIs.
We also have some very cool
Java stuff integrated with WebObjects,
which is what Michael will be
telling you about right now.
So, I introduce -- sorry,
Tim Jorison from WebObjects.
Thank you very much.
Thanks, Ernie.
So what we're going to talk about
today is WebObjects and XML.
And Ernie kind of stole my
questions because everyone seems
to be starting out with questions.
So I'm going to ask it again
except slightly different.
I saw a number of hands go
up to people doing XML stuff.
So just raise those hands again,
people doing XML today.
Okay.
And those of you--no, keep them up,
keep them up just for a second.
And those of you doing
it with WebObjects.
Okay, so about half,
half the number of people.
Okay, thanks.
So, what we're going to do
is talk about XML today,
and we're going to start
out with the basics of XML.
So most of you, I think,
looking out there,
probably know the basics,
but I just want to kind
of cover that real quick.
And then we're going to talk about
the mechanics of XML with WebObjects.
What kind of facilities are in
WebObjects to deal with XML and
kind of the typical scenarios.
We're going to talk about
encoding and decoding XML.
Another way of saying it is
perhaps archiving and parsing,
reading and vending,
consuming and vending.
We're going to talk about XML being
used for server-to-server communication.
There are lots of uses of XML,
but what we're going to kind of talk
about here is really server-to-server,
because that's really
where WebObjects has a big,
strong role and can do a lot.
And we're going to use
content syndication,
kind of a very simplified
version of that,
as an example to illustrate
using XML with WebObjects.
So first the basics of XML.
Back when the web started,
it was all about content.
The tagging was really to represent
the different areas of content.
It wasn't about format.
What XML brings back to
the table is the content.
It really is all about the content.
And of course there are other ways,
ironically,
using XML to describe the format
of formatting the XML over here,
but fundamentally it's about content.
It is a tag system, much like HTML.
We have tags, except it's a little
bit stricter than HTML,
more akin to perhaps SGML in
its structuredness and rigidity.
It does use plain text,
as you're probably aware.
And the good thing of all this,
the good part of this is
that it's not just a text,
it's a text that's written in HTML.
It's a text that's written in HTML.
And the good part of all this
is that it really is pretty
easy to learn the basics.
Lots of books on XML,
and a lot of them don't even
talk about programming at all.
They really treat it more like, you know,
just kind of a structured ASCII document,
and how you can interact with this
document and have this document represent
meaningful and useful information.
And it is, it is absolutely gaining a
widespread acceptance for,
for data interchange,
which is really one of the reasons why
we're going to focus a little bit on,
on that server-to-server communication.
So first a little sample XML file
just so we all understand what we see.
Looks, we have tags.
Here you can see the very top
level is a model tag and everything
else is enclosed in that.
We clearly have tags and attributes.
The one thing I will point out for those
who are kind of from the HTML arena is
if we look at this first property list
here where it says the third line down,
property name equals quantity.
At the very end, the far right,
you'll see that that tag actually
has a slash before the end of it.
This is an empty tag.
So this is something that
XML kind of brings to the table
and something you haven't seen
in your typical HTML document.
So there's just a sample bit of XML.
So now let's talk about
WebObjects and XML.
Traditionally WebObjects is a server
and it's used to vend information out.
And typically it's vending
information out for web pages.
So there's this notion of
a request and a response.
WebObjects 4.5 adds a factoring
application to the server role.
And in the server role,
the WebObjects application takes in
requests and sends out responses.
When you start talking about
server-to-server communication,
all of a sudden,
your WebObjects application
server is also a client to
some other application server.
It may play the role of both
the server and a client.
And so what WebObjects 4.5 adds is
a factoring out of the parts of the
request and response that were common.
And so we now have in WebObjects
4.5 introduced into the class
hierarchy a "woe" message.
And "woe request" and "woe
response" are subclasses of "woe
message." So when you look at...
When you're looking for access
to certain things that used to
be in a request or response,
you might have to look in WoMessage to
actually get to access those methods.
The good news of all this is that
your request and your response
can now take on a different role.
They no longer have this
predefined notion of "I'm a server,
I'm a client." In 4.0,
oftentimes you would have to
do some socket connections
to go out and grab requests.
Maybe you were in Objective-C,
you used NSString's little "go grab this,
get me a string from this
URL" or something like that.
Now we also have a structure
in the mechanics of WebObjects
to do HTTP connections.
And so we can actually have that
client piece of an HTTP connection
in your WebObjects application.
So WebObjects 4.5 adds that.
So it adds WoMessage, WoRequest,
WoResponse, or subclasses of that.
also have HTTP connection.
To do the encoding and decoding
of the XML from the object world
to the flat XML text world,
we've added WoXMLCoder and WoXMLDecoder.
These are two classes that really try to
simplify the in and outbound XML data.
And all of those,
those two classes are actually
built on top of IBM's XML parser.
I will make a note that in
WebObjects 4.5 to use these classes,
you actually have to be using
Java as your programming language.
Let's talk now about encoding.
When you encode,
you go from an object and you
want to get out an XML file.
And we can actually do
that with a single method.
So it's encode root object with
key that you pass an object and
you pass it what XML tag you want
associated with that top level root.
And what you get back is an XML document.
This, this XML coder,
WoW XML coder object can
actually do this one method,
just kind of it magically works
for any of the common types:
NSArray, NSDictionary, EnterpriseObjects,
String, Number, Date,
and maybe a few others.
It's in the documentation.
I would definitely recommend that you
take a look at the XML documentation
that's in the WebObjects 4.5.
There's a PDF that describes all
of this as I'm going through,
just for your reference.
So, with this single method
you can create these,
this XML representation of these objects.
If you have a data type
that's not supported by that,
what you can do is you
can write a custom method,
it's basically encodeObjects for key,
that will your past,
You're past the object and your
responsibility is to return the
XML representation of that object.
One of the things that you
can--this is all good and great,
okay?
I have a bunch of--I have an
EO and I just want to get an
XML representation of that EO.
I just send this--I send this
object to this--to the coder,
let it go to work.
The one thing to be aware
of is that by default,
it'll take that object, encode it,
and then follow all the relationships,
all the related objects,
and encode them as well.
So the downside of this is that
as you navigate relationships,
it goes to the next object.
So you have,
let's say you have an employee.
You archive the, it codes the employee.
It then goes to the department, codes it,
but then there's an inverse
relationship going back to employees,
so then it codes all of the
employees for that department.
So you can imagine that in a
well-connected object model,
everything,
your entire database gets encoded.
Not exactly what you
want in most situations.
So, ways of avoiding this.
One is, on your EO,
you can actually implement the
custom encoder method and say which
attributes and which relationships
to actually encode and not.
You can also use a mapping file,
which I'm going to show in just a second.
Or the other way is to actually,
if it's possible,
you can actually turn off the class
property of the inverse relationships.
If it's not a class property,
it doesn't actually follow it to encode.
So let's take a look at this method.
The top one is kind of the single,
don't do any work, throw in an object,
and get an XML document out.
And it's basically you create a
coder and you send it the encode
root object for key message.
And the bottom one is
using a mapping file.
You basically create a coder
with the mapping file and
then send that same message.
So what does a mapping file look like?
Using XML we describe the
mapping file and it's,
this is actually the same
one I showed earlier today.
What it says is what your entity
name is and it says the tag,
XML tag to use and which attributes
of that to actually encode with some
flags to deal with special cases.
Now decoding.
Again, single method,
you can actually decode
your object into your,
you can decode your XML into an object.
So you have this XML file and
you want an object from it.
With the single method,
what you generally get back is
either an array or a dictionary
or an array of dictionaries.
And we're going to show this
in the demo a little later.
You can also use a mapping file.
to specify how that encoding or decoding,
how that decoding actually happens.
From the encoding standpoint,
you're typically going to do that,
use a mapping file in order
to adhere to a certain DTD.
And decoding, you're going to use that to
basically map the XML someone's
giving you into your objects,
your enterprise objects,
and the attributes that are there.
Unless you've convinced the other
person to use the exact same names
that you are using in your EOs.
Just as a side note for
decoding and kind of,
excuse me, parsing the documents,
you also have access,
the IBM parser is there,
so you can use the
SACS API to deal with that.
And the response object,
you can actually,
if it's an XML document,
you can actually ask it,
give me a DOM document from this,
from the request,
from the response content.
So,
in this HTTP connection kind of thing,
you get a document back, if it's XML,
you can just ask that response object,
give me that thing as a DOM document
and manipulate it with that API.
An example of this is Related Links,
which goes out and uses the Netscape
Related Links service on the web.
You give it a website and it comes back
with all the related sites to that.
It's all done using mapping files,
so you can get a sense for that.
And it's a really good example of kind of
all the little ins and outs and different
ways of using the encoder and decoder.
One pitfall to avoid
when you're decoding,
occasionally the decoder will
look and if you have four,
say, three things that have name,
so you have three tags right
after each other that are name or
The first thing you'll see is a
string that is a single string back.
So what you'll get is an
array of three strings.
Well, if there's only one,
what you're going to get is
basically a single string back
instead of an array of one size.
So there's a forced list
option in the mapping file that
will always make it an array,
even if there's only one.
So I've seen that bite a few customers.
So now let's go on to
kind of uses of XML.
And the one we're going to focus on here
is really server-to-server communication.
Used often for data interchange
and transferring and communicating
between two applications.
Going from the previous discussion,
you might actually use XML in this
mechanism to exchange snapshots,
even if someone thinks
that's a flurry of activity.
But that's an example of some
kind of thing you might use.
You also might use this for
remote method invocation.
There are a number of
protocols out there,
XMLRPC, SOAP is another one that's
gaining wide acceptance.
Electronic data interchange is
another example of server-to-server
just completing a purchase
order or something like that.
Content management is generally a popular
use for XML and dealing with putting
content from one place to another.
There are a number of people
actually using this today.
With WebObjects,
there's a company down in Florida,
NetCommerce Corp,
using all sorts of XML for
content management.
There are a number of others
that I'm sure are here today
doing similar kinds of things.
Content syndication,
this is what we're going to
talk about in just a second.
I have an article.
I'm a publisher.
I'm an author, a site that has a bunch of
authors creating content.
And I want to sell that or push that
out to a number of different sites.
And these sites want to get
kind of the top headline news.
So if I'm Reuters and I want all the,
I want to sell my content out,
we might use content syndication
to push that out or have them
poll for that information.
And so there are a number of standards.
All the,
most of these are all based on XML.
The bottom line is there
are kind of two flows.
You either push the content to
the subscriber or the subscriber
periodically polls for new content.
So in the push model,
a new article goes in and it gets pushed
out to the servers and they're just
sitting there waiting to accept it.
In the poll scenario,
the subscriber periodically
asks for requests.
Do you have new articles?
And the publisher pushes out
those new articles when asked.
This is actually the model that we're
going to use for our little simple
demonstration of putting this in action.
So, what I would like to do is
bring Michael Leong on stage.
So, what we've done here is,
before we started,
we created a direct web application.
Direct web is not a toy.
We created a simple direct
web application here,
and what we're going to do
is add syndication to this.
This is going to be our publisher.
So, I use direct web because I can
add an article very simply.
So,
what we did was create a simple direct
action class and called syndication.
And we're going to add a few methods
to create this XML document on request.
So the first thing we want to do,
as kind of a general good coding,
a good programming style,
we want to create one coder object.
So one Woe XML coder.
And we're going to save
that as an IVAR on the top.
And we've got a bunch of code
in the middle that goes out and,
given a certain client ID,
ID will fetch the articles
that they have not seen yet.
[Transcript missing]
The next thing we want to
do is call that one method:
encode root object for key,
passing in the array of
articles and giving it a key.
In this case the key we're
going to give it is articles.
The next thing that we want
to do is create a wo response.
So we are going to be the
vendor of this XML document.
And so we're going to create
a wo response that we're going
to append this XML document to.
So we create our new wo response.
And the first thing we're
going to do is create the,
add into that response the
XML kind of identifier for
the actual document itself.
So we see the less than question
mark XML version kind of thing here.
This is a hard one to remember.
We actually can just copy and paste this.
Just to make sure we get it right.
So we now have the response.
We've added kind of
this XML initial part.
And now we're going to go ahead and
append that content to the response.
This is our XML string we did with the
one line in code root object for key.
And finally,
what we want to do is set the
MIME type so that the receiver
of this will actually get the,
understand it as an XML document,
as opposed to trying to
interpret it as an HTML document.
and finally see that
we return the response.
So what we're going to do
is go ahead and build this.
And assuming we haven't made any typos,
compile,
and we're going to go ahead and run it.
and if we could switch to machine four,
machine five, sorry.
So if we bring up our browser now,
what I'm going to do is access that site,
that application,
as if I'm a content subscriber,
a syndication subscriber.
So this is pretending I'm
looking for all the XML,
the XML version of the article
listing of all the messages.
So I have that bookmarked here.
What we get now is produced by that
Direct Web Application with that
little Direct Action Class add-in,
we now have an array of articles.
In this case, three articles.
You see our XML version up here.
And each article has
So, what we're going to do is we're
going to take a look at the web
object applications inside it,
publish date, the text,
and you'll notice that it
also has references to,
in this case, because we encoded EOs,
it has relationships, in this case,
to one.
So, on the,
when we get to the building the server,
sorry, the syndication client,
the subscriber, because we have two
WebObjects applications,
we're going to take advantage of that,
and what we're actually going
to get is EO generic records
back on the other side.
So we'll be able to do all of
our key value coding very easily.
So we have that.
Now what we want to do is build,
so if we switch back to machine four,
now what we want to do
is build that syndication
Client and add the decoding.
So take this XML string that we
just saw and make objects out of it.
What does that take?
And so what we have is,
we have a little application
that's really just designed
to kind of show news articles.
And again,
the first thing we want to do is
create an IVAR for the decoder,
just kind of have that
around and reuse it.
Creating a decoder or an encoder is a
little bit of a heavyweight operation.
We don't want to do that
for every single request.
And now what we want to do is create,
use that WebObjects as a client
functionality that's been added,
and create a WoW HTTP connection object.
And what this takes is a
host and a port number.
And then we're going to go
through the process of sending
a request over the line.
So where we can start chanting faster,
faster, faster.
So now what we're going to do is
take that HTTP connection that we
have and we're actually going to send
a request through that connection.
And the request we send is actually
going to be a WoeRequest object.
So again, you get to use the same classes
you've been using before,
the difference is you're using
them in the opposite manner that
you have been accustomed to.
In this case,
we actually create Will requests
and get back Will responses.
As opposed to the traditional role of
getting requests and making responses.
And after we send that request,
what we want to do is actually,
we have the request,
now what we want to do is pull the
response out of that connection request.
So we're going to read the
response into a response object.
And again, do that lazy initialization.
Since we haven't, we want to make sure we
actually have a decoder already,
and if we don't, we need to create one.
So at this point,
we have the XML document
in a woe request,
a woe response.
And we have a decoder,
so now we get to call that one method,
decodeRootObject, and decodeRootObject,
given this NSData,
will give us our objects back.
In this particular case,
what we're getting back
every time is an array,
an array of articles.
It may be an empty array if
there were no new articles,
but we're always going
to get back an array.
So we decode it.
And we have these new articles now.
What we want to do is
simply add these articles to
So, the very first time we
run the application,
it goes out and fetches all the articles,
and then every other
time it requests them,
if there are new ones,
we'll simply add that to the list
of available articles we have.
Now, there are a whole bunch of,
we made this very simple,
we simplified the problem, and in fact,
we're going to ask for new
articles on every request that
comes into the application.
We're doing this pretty much
entirely from a demo perspective,
because having a timer sitting there,
you know, we sit even longer than
we have been watching,
waiting for Michael to type faster.
Faster, faster, faster.
Okay, so we're done.
So, we're going to go ahead
and run this application.
So, it's built,
and we're going to run it now.
and what we're going to do
at this point is bring up
So, we're going to split the screen,
so for the overflow room I apologize if
it gets a little difficult to follow.
What we're going to have is
on the screen to my left,
your right,
we're going to have the servers,
and we're going to have
both servers running there,
and on the other screen we're
going to have the browser.
So, if you want to switch so we
have both of them looking.
Okay, so what I'm going to do is
simply access this site.
So what we have here
is the three articles.
So when we did that,
when I first accessed it,
it went across to the subscriber,
asked the publisher,
give me your articles,
and if you can highlight, Michael,
the XML.
Sorry, I got ahead of myself.
We're not logging at this point.
What I'm going to do now is,
well we got those three articles back.
I asked for all the messages.
There are currently three
messages in the system.
So what we're going to do now
is add a message to the system.
So I'm going to go back to the,
I'm going to go to the direct
web version of the application.
This is the publisher now.
And I'm just going to
create a new article.
So I'm going to create
a new article and say,
[Transcript missing]
Okay,
and the publication date for this one,
we're going to make it May,
what's today's date?
18th?
May 18th, 2000.
And this has to do with airports
and I'm the author here.
So I'll go ahead and
I'm going to save it.
It's going to go into the database,
but no syndication will
happen immediately.
Alright, so that article is saved.
Now, what I'm going to do is I'm just
going to click on a link here.
Any link will cause a
request to the application,
which is going to cause, like I said,
every request that comes
into the news site,
So what we'll see is
when I click on this,
we'll see the two send the
XML messages back and forth and then
it'll be added to this page here.
So when I click on this,
it goes across and what
we see at the bottom,
what we see at the top is the
actual XML that got created.
Again,
that eogeneric record and at the bottom
you see that we inserted one new article.
So we've used the client capabilities
in our WebObjects application,
HTTP connection, to send requests out,
get back XML content,
and turn them into objects that
are rendered in our webpages.
And on the publisher side,
we've gone to the database,
taken our EOs, and encoded them in
XML and sent them out,
in this case, based on a direct action.
Clearly, there's lots of stuff.
Clearly there's lots
of stuff you'd want to,
you know, you'd want a polling mechanism,
you know, to do it on a timer,
you'd want security between all this,
but these were really to highlight
those APIs that you're going to want
to be familiar with to do these things.
So thank you Michael,
and Michael will be back
for a Q&A in a little bit.
What I want to do now is
switch back to the slides,
and that's using WoW XML Coder and
WoW XML Decoder to do that XML.
But there is another way, and it may be,
so how many people have actually used
WoW XML Coder or Decoder out there?
A couple.
Alright, so how many people have done
XML with WebObjects basically
using the component model?
Just building a component
and generating XML?
Okay, we have a couple.
So a whole lot of hands went
up earlier that they were
doing WebObjects and XML stuff.
I'm missing something.
What else have you used?
Object space DXML?
Okay.
So you've just taken your objects and
created XML using other libraries.
Okay,
so using other things to create your XML.
Okay, well,
besides the WoW XML coder and decoder,
you can use the component model.
The component model basically says,
to date we've been using,
Components as part of pages
to generate HTML documents.
These documents happen to be tagged.
So why can't we just make
these documents of an XML type?
And the answer is you can easily do that,
and we're going to have a demo of an
example of that coming up real soon.
But WebObjects itself
actually uses this method.
My understanding,
just to make sure I'm right,
is the Direct-to-Java client actually
uses this to create those XMLs,
part of the XML that goes out
to the Java client application.
There are components that
are generating this XML.
So you can actually use
WebObjects Builder to put XML,
do the repetitions,
simply inserting the tags
using Woe Generic Container,
Woe Generic Element.
Or you can also use a new class,
a new component that was added in 4.5,
I believe, called Woe XML Node.
It's in the Woe Extensions Framework.
And it really is probably
the easiest way to learn.
Just, you want to create an XML document,
you can create in Builder,
connect up some generic elements,
generic containers, bind them to things,
and you should be able to create
XML very quickly without understanding,
[Transcript missing]
So what I'll do now is
bring on Ron Lusang,
who you saw earlier today doing SMILE.
He was really focusing
there on the client side,
using SMILE to make
QuickTime your browser,
or not use your browser,
and have QuickTime be your UI.
What Ron's going to talk about now is
how he did that using Generic Element,
Generic Container, and WoW XML there.
Thanks, Ron.
Ron Lusang: Okay,
so how many of you were here for
the session earlier this morning?
Whoa, hello.
Okay, so did you guys like that?
Yeah.
Ron Lusang: Okay.
Thank you.
So now you're probably wondering though,
so exactly how did I build the framework?
What does it really look like?
Okay.
Here's the source for the framework.
I've got a whole bunch of Woe
components and they pretty much
map directly to all of the elements
that are in the SMILE spec.
Each of the elements like the document,
the media objects, everything,
has its own component.
And I even have a sort of an
inheritance model here that all
inherits from Smile Element.
Simple thing.
As Tim had said,
you want to remember though
to set the MIME type.
What I do in my framework though
is for the SMILE document,
I actually set the MIME type
for application SMILE,
since this is SMILE specifically
versus generic XML.
Each of these elements has
a couple of things in them.
The main, the very important one,
the one that you guys
all saw this morning,
is the smile media object.
I've got some logic in here for actually
generating the source and the href tag,
the href attribute that
goes along with the tag.
A whole lot of other
[Transcript missing]
All of these, though,
are generated from Web components,
and most of them only contain...
Most of them only contain this.
This is all that I did.
I've got component content
so that you can nest things,
and then the actual media object that
So, by doing this,
you can lay them out in WAB the
way you would lay out HTML elements
that you normally would.
So, to see an example of that,
here's the application that
I showed earlier and the video page.
This is actually what it looks like.
Beautiful smile elements that you
can bind all of your logic to.
You can set the MIME type for any
of the media that you're sending
out for the SMILE media objects.
So one thing with all
of these will components
WebObjects really wants to
know what bindings are going
to be in there beforehand.
So that's why I have all these very,
this very long list of
variables in some of my objects.
Now, what if you've got some things that
you don't really know ahead of time?
In my framework,
I don't really know ahead of time
what you people who would build
applications using this would use
as attributes in your smile tags.
I left one thing in here.
A other tag string.
This lets me add random things
to any of the tags that get
generated for my smile documents.
In my application here,
there are some extensions to smile
that were added by QuickTime.
A QuickTime player can
understand a couple more tags,
and one of them
is the Qt autoplay, Qt time slider,
and the Qt next values.
If I can run this on a
different port real quick.
[Transcript missing]
So, we've got... So we can go and take
a look at the actual source here.
Let's choose... actually,
why don't we Sherlock for it?
Let's do that.
That's another thing.
So, Sherlock.
Okay.
Use of XML here.
Still will components on my app side.
I've described what my application
is going to send back to
Sherlock once it's found something,
how it's going to be formatted,
how all the results are formatted.
It's formatted
[Transcript missing]
We'll take a look at
all the songs in my app.
So we'll try lock songs.
[Transcript missing]
Now I've got a direct action in my
app that will give me pop rock music.
[Transcript missing]
Oh, no wonder.
Seems to be something using
my OpenBase connection.
Alright.
The main thing I wanted to show you
though is what it looks like once
we've actually generated all of the,
once we've bound all of the
tags to values in our logic.
It looks basically like this,
except all the WebObjects
tags are changed.
You've seen this before.
It looks just like your HTML would.
That's kind of the beauty of it, right?
You can still use Wob to generate
something that isn't really what you're
used to generating with WebObjects.
Instead of HTML, you're generating XML.
You can use stuff beyond just
component content and WoE components.
You can use the WoE XML node.
My framework for generating
I've got a subproject
here called Search Me.
This is what the tags look like in here.
You can see here I've got WoW XML node.
And the cool thing,
so I've mixed WoW XML node
with WoW repetitions,
WoW strings, and WoW links,
WoW hyperlink.
This is another advantage.
So instead of having to go through
and concentrate on using the mapping
coder and generating all of the
extra stuff that you would need
to talk to Sherlock or to QuickTime,
you just build it in Wob and
it all kind of just works.
It's kind of the nice thing about it.
I suggest that everyone try this out.
It's a beautiful thing.
Thanks, Ron.
So you have two opportunities.
You can use WoXML Coder/Decoder.
If you're going to be vending
and consuming and trying
to go both directions,
perhaps it's worth learning that.
If you just want to be vending
XML out to other sites or other
users or other applications,
then the component model makes a lot
of sense because it's a really natural
fit for what you've probably been doing
with generating HTML applications.
So WebObjects and XML, in summary,
it can be both a vendor
and a consumer of XML.
We've added facilities to deal with
the client side of an HTTP connection,
as well as both consuming
and vending the XML itself.
Easy encoding and decoding,
encoding component model or WoXML Coder,
decoding WoXML Decoder,
as well as other APIs.
Mapping files if you need
DTD adherence both in and out.
And it's actually used within
the WebObjects application,
WebObjects product itself in
a number of different ways,
Direct to Java Client
being just one of them.
And it is used today
by the number of hands,
by a number of developers
out there already.
So I encourage you to go and
start to create XML stuff
and vend it to the world.
So with that,
I'd like to bring Michael and
Ron back up to answer any questions.
And Ernie, any questions that you might
have about XML WebObjects?
So a big hand for Tim and the gang.